Now we have multiple pages and to make the navigation easier, let's have navigation bar in our page.
We are going to start with the test again and opening the app component because we are adding the navigation
tests into this one.
So we will have again a repeating test.
And just like for the routing right here, we will be having another let's say we in this time we are
going to check the link.
So let's say links, link tests and we will have an array this time we are going to look for the path
and also we are going to query the the title of the anchors pointing to that path.
So we will have the pad and for the home pad, the route URL, we are going to check for the title of
home.
So let's have the test link test for each and let's take the path and title and let's have the test
now it and again using vertex here, let's say it has a link with title and using the title variables
to path.
So it's going to be like it has link with title home to forward slash.
So here we are going to add the test, but in this one, we are not going to deal with navigation or
anything.
We are just querying the app component.
It's going to be the root component.
We don't need navigation to be in this one to check these anchor elements.
So let's get to the anchor again.
We are going to use the query selector, by the way, let's make this a bit simpler.
So let's have the.
The variable, let's call this one is let's say app component.
And it's going to be.
Component.
Fixture.
Native element.
So then here.
Let's use that component.
By the way, we need to set the type for it because this is returning an HTML element.
So this is going to be a HTML element.
And just like this.
So here we are going to get the, let's say link element and we will get it by component query selector.
And we are going to get the the anchor and we specifically look for the title attribute of it, which
will have.
The value of a title like this.
And for the assertion part, we are expecting this link element.
It will have a path name and we are expecting it to equal to Pat.
By the way, we are having this error because this is a HTML element and the path name is for the external
anchor element right here.
So we are casting the return return object as the anchor element and we are able to access to the name
attributes of it.
And the TypeScript compiler is not complaining at this point.
So let's say this one.
And the test is failing.
It has linked with title home to slash.
So let's fix this.
We are going to have the link in the app component so we can add a div above the the container.
Let's consider this container as the page content and above that one we will have this navigation bar
thing.
So let's have another div to gather all these anchor.
So the anchor is going to have the link to this pad h ref and the title is this is the, the attribute
we are querying, it's going to be home and it's a text, let's say let's say it's going to be Oxford.
This is my application name.
And basically I'm thinking it more like people are registering to this one and sharing the hoaxes.
So let's say this one.
And here we see the tests are passing.
And here the test is right here.
And if you open the browser here we have the link right here.
So if you go to let's say sign up, then if we click to the Oxford, we are back to homepage.
By the way, since we added this about the root, root it even we go to the other pages, we are seeing
this link on top of the page.
So we have the link for the the homepage.
Let's add the next link and that's for the signup page.
So we will have a link for sign up having the title of sign up, saving it.
Let's show the test console and the test is failing.
It has link with title sign up to sign up.
So let's fix this one and we have just another anchor and it's going to be having the link to the signup
and the title of this one is going to be signed up and is a text that's display sign up as well.
Saving it.
And the tests are passing and here we are seeing the sign uplink as well.
So if I click on Sci-Fi, it's going to homepage and if I click sign up, it's going to sign a page.
But the current navigation is not actually what we are looking for in the final application.
So whenever we click to the links, it is basically reloading whole application.
So let's show that one as well, opening the terminal and let's switch to the network tab.
Let's clear this thing and let's go to the home page.
Here we are seeing we are loading the JavaScript files, CSS file and basically we are loading everything
and after clicking the sign up, we are loading same set of data again.
So basically we are starting the application when we are navigating from one page to another, our application
is actually bundled in a JavaScript file and we don't want to load the same JavaScript files again just
because we are showing different component based on the new pad.
And another downside of this approach is other than loading the same files from backend, we are losing
the application state.
We don't have the state at the moment, but we can do something like this.
So here in the app component, let's say let's open the web component, CSS file as well.
So here in the app component, let's have right here above the container again, let's have a button
and this is going to be count button.
And whenever we click this one, it's going to be increasing the counter.
At the moment we don't have that one, but we will add it.
So it's increasing the counter one counter by one.
So here in the app component, we will have that counter.
Let's say it is initially zero.
So we are increasing after clicking the button in the the app component.
And let's also print the count value here.
So counter is right here.
Let's say this one.
Now we are seeing the count like here is zero and the count button.
And let's go to homepage first.
So I'm just clicking the count.
As you can see, it is increasing and like if I click to the sign up now we are back to zero.
So we are losing the application state after the navigation.
So we don't want to load everything.
When we are navigating, we just want our layout to be updated after the path is changed.
But we are going to fix this implementation.
But first, let's add a test for the navigation.
At the moment we don't have the test for the navigation, but let's edit now.
So again, we have a multiple test and this time let's have the error.
Let's call this one navigation test.
And in this one, we will have a three property.
First, we need to render specific page.
Then we are going to click to the specific link.
Then in the end, we are going to query the visible page.
So let's have the variables for each.
So we will have initial path.
And for this case we will be rendering the home page first.
Then we are going to clicking to to the sign up link.
Then in the end, we will be seeing this visible page and that's going to be sign up page.
So let's add the test for this one for each.
So we have.
Initial pad clicking to and visible page.
So the test is going to be it.
It displays.
Visible page
after clicking clicking.
So Link now we are going to have the navigation like this one.
We have initial path so we will use the the route to navigate.
So this test is going to be async.
So the first thing we are going to do is we are going to await router navigate to the by the way, I
have typo here, navigate to the initial pad, then we are going to get the link.
So I'm going to use this query right here, copying this one pasting here and we are going to use the
a clicking tool this time.
And we are going to click to this link.
But for clicking we are going to do like this in in sign up component, we are clicking the button and
we were just let's find that first we were just calling the button click.
But for the link element we are going to call the click again.
But this time we will wait here.
I will show an alternative to this one later, but at the moment it's saying that the weight has no
effect, but it actually has.
It's not the best approach at the moment, but we will get to that.
So we are clicking to the link and this is going to be handling the navigation and we will be seeing
the changes on the UI.
So first make sure fixture detect changes so the UI is updated.
Then we are going to query the visible page.
So we expect the signup page to be visible again.
I'm going to use the query right here, just copying the page query and the assertion part.
So we are going to check for the visible page.
So this is the the test and let's open the test console as well, saving this.
Now we have failure like this.
The test console is not displaying the errors because the navigation is not working as it's supposed
to do.
So like the navigation is basically reloading the application and that's what is causing this issue
on the the karma test window as well.
So in browser we are manually testing and the scenario is working there because the application is restarted.
But in the test it is failing because the browser, the karma window is redirected to the to the pages,
but that redirection is ending up with the not found error.
So it's not able to update the UI and the test is failing.
So instead of directly using the anchor element with the ref attribute, we are going to use the directive
coming from the angular router and all we will do is just replace this ref with router link.
So let's save this one and just.
Reloading this one.
And here we see the tests are passing.
By the way, I just cleared the path after the port part in the car window and just hit enter to reload
the test.
So the test is passing so it displays sign up page after clicking sign uplink.
And if we test it on browser at the moment the link is rather link is only used in the signup.
So just going to the the homepage and let's click the count.
So the count is increased to six and if I click to sign up here it is navigated to the signup and the
count is still at six.
But if we clicked to the ify the home link which doesn't have the router link attribute, let's see
what's going to happen here.
We see the count is back to zero.
The signup link at the moment is not causing any reload and it is working as we expect it to work.
So let's fix this behavior for the home link as well.
So we are going to add the test to to the navigation test here and just copying the first test I'm pasting
here initially this time let's open the signup page.
Then we are going to click to the home and we are going to see the home page, let's say this one.
And again, the karma is not able to show the result.
It is not working and let's fix it by just replacing it.
Rather link saving it.
Now the test is running and it's properly working, then sampling the application.
So let's test this one on browser as well.
So we are in a home page.
Let's see the count.
It is five.
Let's go to sign up.
It is still five.
Let's click count a couple of more time and let's go back to home.
And Count is still not changed.
So the tests are passing and the implementation is working as as we expected.
Let's switch back to the karma window.
Now, I mentioned about this this weight thing here, which has effect, but here you see a warning
saying a weight has no effect on type of this expression.
So let's see what's going to happen.
If you notice, let's say this.
Now we are seeing these tests are failing.
These two tests are failing.
And if we check the spec list right here, we will see these are failing.
This wait might be a flag here.
It may be fixing the things unintentionally, but to have better control, we have another option here.
Basically, we are going to do something like this.
So this is our test function, just cutting this one, this async and the curly braces for the function.
Just cutting this.
Now for handling async operations like this, Angular has the fake async utility function.
So this is basically going to wrap our test function.
So this is a function and we are passing our function to it.
So with this way we are in control of the async operations and right here after the link element click,
we can call TEQ.
So basically this is simulating the async passage of time for the timers.
So we are.
They're moving the things forward and then this would end up the navigation to be completed.
So let's say this one.
And here we see the tests are passing.
So having this one is more solid, more robust approach.
So I will use this one.
Now, at the moment we have links for the home and sign up, but let's add one more link.
We have the login page as well.
First, I didn't get test for the link tests and just copying this one and pasting right after the sign
up.
So this is going to be for login and the title is going to be login.
Let's save this.
So this test is failing because we don't have the that link opening the app component.
So right after this signup, let's just copy the signup link and paste after the signup.
And it's going to be for login.
Login.
Let's see this.
And the test is passing.
And let's also add the test for the navigation.
And by the way, I just copied the sign up so I have the router link thing here.
So this test is also going to pass.
So initial path is sign up or we can go with the route page.
Other than logging is fine.
So we are going to click to the login link and in the end we will see the login page saving it.
And this one is also passing.
And if we test it on browser, here we are in login page.
The counter is still working and if we navigate to the other pages we are not losing the state.
Now we completed the navigation part, at least for the initial implementation for the navigation bar.
We can remove this counter now and we can also remove the relevant button and the count from component.
We are going to change the styling of the navigation bar in the next part and we are not going to have
a link for the user in the navigation bar.
We will only have the links for the sign up looking and homepage.
Later we will have a list of users in the homepage and they will be having links to the user page.